Hi. I'm going to talk about the general recipe for AI related problems.

Or in short, how to become an AI chef. The agenda for today is we are going to talk about AI, evolution and revolution.

And of course, to become a chef there is a recipe, and the generic recipe for it is definitely data.

Knowing that AI is data driven and without data, we cannot really do anything, then the most important part is data.

And I will be doing a lot of emphasis on this. Then after that, it becomes model itself.

But you cannot imagine having a model,  model not being robust.

Every model should have an objective function. A very simple example of it that you should think about is

Let's assume you have a bunch of points and you want to find a line going through those points.

Then what's your objective? Your objective is finding the best line that have the minimum distance on average from those points.

But then again, any line has to have some slope and intercept.

And that means you have to start from some slope and intercept.

Then you may ask me a question that, but how can I find out the best slide?

My answer is you need to optimize it. Then this notion of optimization.

And we're going to have a nice full lecture on exactly what optimization is in a very nice visualized way.

But before we start this, let me start with a picture of a day which is nothing but the ways

NASA scientists in 50s, they were working together.

This is something we don't see today. We don't see scientists 6 or 7 of them going on a blackboard,

We don't even see blackboard or holding in chalk and doing it, that's the way they were working it together.

And you may imagine, did they really think about AI back then?

The answer to it is absolutely yes. Because you think that Alan Turing is the so-called famous, Turing test, is saying that the computer

would deserve to be called intelligent if it could deceive a human into believing that it was human.

And this is actually what we are talking about, because it's sometimes impossible to imagine what we are seeing,

What we are reading. Is that human generated or machine generated?

